# Abstact

Nowadays, unmanned aerial systems (UASs) have become increasingly popular in a wide range of applications, from military to recreational.  The Interface Analysis Centre (IAC) at the University of Bristol has developed a UAS, called the AARM (Advance Airborne Radiation Monitoring) system, which could be used to provide visual and thermal monitoring of radiation after a release of nuclear material.  AARM system has successfully measured radiation in one of the most highly contaminated prefecture areas in the Fukishima Daiichi nuclear power plant after the disaster caused by the earthquake and tsunami in March 2011.

The purpose of this project is to study ways in which the capability for radiation surveillance at civil nuclear sites of the first generation AARM system could be advanced.  In the context of this project the following improvements have been proposed:
-	Equipping the UAS with advanced sensors.  An extensive testing of proximity sensors has been conducted to identify the strengths and the weaknesses of the existing commercial of-the-self (COTS) sensors.  The laser sensor and the ultrasonic sensor have been utilised as basic components for building a custom measurements device.
-	Developing a realistic simulation and assisted flight method.  A comprehensive simulation based on ROS and gazebo has been developed.  Using that simulation, an assisted teleoperation mode for obstacle avoidance has been implemented.
-	Creating advanced human robotic interfaces.  The main mission of the UAS is to map the radiation levels.  An iOS mobile application for visualising the radiation intensities (cps) on a map has been developed.  In addition, a second iOS application was implemented which can be utilized to teleoperate a ROS-enabled UAV.
-	Developing a custom quad-copter for the obstacle avoidance applcation.  At first, a basic approach was implemented.  The operator flies a ready-made copter manually.  The copter is equipped with a custom measurements device, which mesures the distances in front and at the sides and sends visual feedback to a smart device.  In the advanced approach, a custom X4 UAV was built.  It was equipped with an on-board computer and an enhanced version of the custom measurements device.  Experiments were conducted succesfully that verify the basic behaviour of the UAV.  Further testing is required for the tuning and the improvement of the autonomous behaviour.

All in all, during this project a set of useful tools has been developed.  The successful combination of all those tools enables us to design a radiation mapping UAV that will advance the performance of the existing AARM. 

